The third category of routing protocols is Advanced Distance Vector.
In theory, EIGRP or Enhanced Interior Gateway Protocol takes the best
of both distance vector and links state routing protocols and combines that
into a single routing protocol
You may see that EIGRP is described as a hybrid routing protocol
where it combines elements of both distance vector
and link state into a single routing protocol.
That isn't entirely true and in the EIGRP videos
we'll discuss that in a lot more detail.
In theory, EIGRP takes the best of distance vector and that is very easy to configure.
You could configure EIGRP on a router as an example
by using just 2 commands and thus it' very easy to configure
in the same way that RIP in the past was easier to configure.
EIGRP, however, forms neighbor relationship in a similar way
to link state routing protocols such as OSPF.
So unlike distance vector routing protocols like RIP
that do not form neighbor relationships.
EIGRP does form neighbor relationships.
So, in theory, it's taking best of both distance vector
and link state and combining them into a single routing protocol
that gives you the power of a link state routing protocol
with the ease of configuration of a distance vector routing protocol.
the disadvantage of EIGRP is that it's Cisco propriety
so unless you running a pure Cisco network
you may have to choose a different routing protocol
such as OSPF if however, all your devices are Cisco devices
EIGRP is a very good choice.
It’s very easy to configure
it’s very quite, it updates very quickly
and is a good choice for most enterprise networks that only have Cisco devices.